W-15308521-multiruntime-duke (#289)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/acb-int-mule-version.adoc

= Set Mule Runtime and JDK Versions

Set default versions for all of your implementation and integration projects, or change the version to use for a specific project:

* Update to a more current version.
* Switch to a supported version, for example, for a project that you import into Anypoint Code Builder that uses an unsupported version.
* Add a version of Mule runtime (Mule) or the JDK that is missing from your project.
* Select versions of Mule and the JDK that are compatible with each other.

For more information about Mule and the JDK, see 

> 

Author: add deployment req (locations TBD): test the exact RT version to which they are deploying their Mule app 
* testing page
* here?
* etc.

Author: Also make clear which versions are supported (no 4.5) 
TBD: include here and RNs?

Author: Check on this:
* Will ACB set minMuleVersion to the same version as the project RT when project RT is changed to avoid the need to change values manually in the POM and mule-artifact.json?

[[set-default]]
== Set the Default Mule and JDK Versions

Set defaults from the *Settings* tab in Anypoint Code Builder. Default versions apply automatically to new projects that you create in Anypoint Code Builder. 

. Open the *Settings* tab.
+
TODO: Show me how
+
TODO
. Search for *Mule > Application: Default Mule Runtime & JDK*.
. Set default versions:
+
TODO: DETAILS

TODO: CONVERT TO INCLUDE

//See work with Ari in GUS https://gus.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/ADM_Work__c/a07EE00001nC8VDYA0/view

Settings page: 

*Edit defaults through command palette*

//Table in UI 

Type a value for the Mule runtime or JDK version. The UI will validate the version you enter. 

You can also go to `settings.json` file to enter whatever you want for these values. 

////
Notes on use cases:

* Created in another version or imported from Studio
* Has now incompatible runtime version
* Supported but not installed runtime
* Happy Path: no notification

an imported or older Mule project folder or JAR file

////

In canvas:
Mule runtime or JDK is missing:
Set a Mule runtime and JDK for your project

> *Set Now*

Author: ```suggestion
*Set Version*
```
TODO: Check Version of Versions

Notification to set the version also pops up: 
"The project's Mule runtime and JDK version are not set.""
*Set versions* button or *Dismiss* the notification.

TODO: You can also see in the `pom.xml` that they are missing from the `<properties/>` element.
When present, they look like this:
----
<properties>
  ...
  <mule.runtime.version>VERSIONHERE</mule.runtime.version>
  <mule.jdk.version>VERSIONHERE</mule.jdk.version>
</version>
----
older example: 4.4.0-20231211 Mule version and 11.0.19_7 JDK

== TODO: scenario 1: missing Runtime/JDK

> TODO: convert to real steps: When you click *Set Versions* only (see next scenario for *Set Now*)

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: convert to real steps: When you click *Set Versions* only (see next scenario for *Set Version*)
```

Version or Versions

. Click *Set Versions* buttons.
. In the *Get Runtime* field that opens, select the Mule version for the project.
. In the *Get JDK* field, select a JDK for the runtime.
. If prompted, log in to Anypoint Platform.
+
Required for downloading the runtime and JDK when they are not present.

== TODO: Scenario 2: Runtime set but not compatible

Maybe this is about setting the versions from *Project Properties*. 

Notification: The project's Mule runtime version is no longer supported

> Button: *Change Version*

Author: ```suggestion
Button: *Set Version*
```

Same message in canvas:
Mule runtime or JDK is missing
Set a Mule runtime and JDK for your project

> Button: *Set Now*

Author: ```suggestion
Button: *Set Version*
```
verify button text

> *Set Now* redirects to *Project Properties*, where you can select the Mule and JDK versions to use.

Author: ```suggestion
*Set Version* redirects to *Project Properties*, where you can select the Mule and JDK versions to use.
```
Version or Versions

That page contains *Mule > Application: Default Mule Runtime & JDK*

You can set it from the properties page, where you type the runtime and JDK version into fields that get validated.

There also seems to be a way to set it in a config file (name TODO)

You can also *Edit defaults through command palette*

TODO: see 

== TODO: Scenario 3: Runtime set but not installed

You see the settings in the POM. 

Notification: 
Mule runtime 4.VERSION_HERE in the project is missing from your machine. 

TODO: CAN WE CHANGE THIS MESSAGE?

> Button: *Download* or *Change version*

Author: ```suggestion
Button: *Download* or *Set version*
```

Download triggers the download process, which can take a few minutes to complete. It will download the version that's set in the project's POM.

== Scenario: Only the JDK is missing

Same canvas.

Notification:
The project's JDK versionis not set. 

> Button: *Set version* or *Dismiss*

Author: Verify button text

If only one JDK is valid for the Mule runtime version, then the supported JDK downloads when you click *Set version* (TODO: CASE DIFFERENCE version/Version).

== From 3/28 Meeting

*Mule runtime or JDK is missing*

> Click *Set Now* or *Change Version* open project properties page.

Author: ```suggestion
Click *Set Version* to open the project properties page.
```
Double check "Version" or "Versions"

(TODO: seems like the value selection fields no longer open in the IDE -- wish it would)

versions in the properties page come from the POM file

Click *Apply* to download the JDK if it's not available. 
You get notifications about *Downloading JDK XX* and 
JDK installed. There's a notification if the version isn't downloaded, e.g., (11 (downloads upon clicking Apply))

In properties page, click tab *Mule runtime & JDK*
(unrelated note: there will also be a tab for *Connector* versions coming soon)

Scenario 2 with an unsupported version set:

> Get the *Set Now* page, no longer supported notification

Author: ```suggestion
Get the *Set Version* page, no longer supported notification
```
Version or Versions?
